Let's do a famous exercise and this might come up as an interview question.
We're going to try and implement Fibonacci numbers and Fibonacci numbers are like this the first number
is zero.
Then the second number is 1.
They always start with 0 1.
Then this is what happens.
We add 0 with 1 to equal the next number.
We add 1 with 1 to equal the next number.
We add 1 by 2 to get the next number 2 3 2 add the next number 5 8 2 add the next number.
So on and so forth.
As you can see this grows exponentially while it grows really high really fast and this sort of numbering
actually shows up in nature a lot but it's also a an interesting problem because these numbers although
at the beginning grow really really slowly they become larger and larger and larger and it becomes a
problem that can really hog up the resources.
So this is what I wanted to do.
We're going to create a function fib that takes a number and in here this number is going to be the
index number of the Fibonacci.
So for example if it was the 20th number it should have this.
So if I wanted let's say fib 20 here in that case I want you to return all these numbers using generators
so that is one by one until we get to this location.
Now there's two ways of doing this.
You can do with the list or we can do it with a generator and you'll notice that with a generator it's
a lot easier to do than with a list because eventually with the list you're going to run out of resources.
So what I want you to do is to output on here the numbers that you see here all the way until 20.
And if you want you can keep increasing that number and see what happens.
And as a bonus you can try implementing this with a list as well.
So it displays in a giant list as well pause the video if you want here otherwise I'm going to keep
going with the answer first.
What we want to do is say a is going to equal to zero.
And B is equal to 1.
So A and B are going to be the start of the numbers.
Now in here.
We're going to use the range generator to loop
these number of times that we're going to provide the function now in here.
First I want b to now or a two now equal whatever B was which is 1 and b to b whatever the next number
is.
Remember the rule with food Banaji we add the first two numbers to get the third number.
So we have a B to get the next number then a B to get the next number and then a B to get the next number
so the first thing I want to do is to actually yield hay and say Hey just give me whatever a is and
then pause the function until the next part.
After that after the for loop goes to the next part I'm going to say I want a two equal B
and I want b to equal A plus B.
Let's see if that makes sense.
I'm saying hey return or yield a from this list.
So it'll be zero at first then I want you to make a equal to 1 now because we're moving over and then
I want b to equal 1 because A has turned into one and then the one previously so B becomes two.
If we look over here that's what we want.
We have a and b here and then we want to move over just one like this.
So B should still be one.
So while we might want to do here is to actually not modify a until we are able to do A plus B.
So how can we do this.
Well we can simply say let's say a temporary variable and this temp is going to hold on to whatever
a was when we get here which is zero and then we're going to modify a two equal one and then B is going
to be instead of A plus B will be temp which is zero plus whatever B was originally which is 1.
I know this can get confusing you might want to pause here and maybe print and see exactly what's happening
but hopefully our function works now if now I do something like 4 x in FID and give it let's say a hundred
and let's just print out the answer so print x and I run this all right.
Look at that.
I get all my Fibonacci numbers.
Let's do 20 like we saw in the example.
If I click Run
I get 4 1 8 1 so I'm 19.
Because remember our count starts at zero.
So technically here if we want we can do twenty one here click Run and we should get 6 7 4 6 5 which
is what we get here very very cool.
But you can see how the number increases dramatically as we increase to 1000.
Now if we were to do this in a list it would look something like this.
Let's copy here
now flip to with a list would mean that we have to add a list in here
and instead of yielding we'll do result dot append and we're going to append whatever the a value is
which is the initial value and then we're going to do the same thing we've done before.
So instead of yield we're now just appending to this list.
And at the end we just return
the list result.
Now if I return this let's say fib 2 and give it a 100.
And I click Run let's comment out the original one with the generator.
Well we should probably print this shouldn't we.
So let's do print and click Run.
All right.
That's a massive list.
Now if we were to do a thousand here you see that it's taking quite a bit of time.
What if we do 10000.
All right.
Is definitely taking some time and you can see over here how hard this is working you know what I'm
going to stop it.
And go back to our generator way let's do 10000 here.
We'll see how 10000 looks with a generator
Well it's still working hard.
But I'm not keeping any of this in memory.
We're taking it one by one and I can act upon it in our case just printing it one by one.
Now this is a common interview question.
It's actually a little bit unnecessarily confusing I think but it does demonstrate the power of generators
you might have to watch this video a couple of times.
But hopefully by now you're feeling a little bit comfortable with using ranges and how we can improve
performance using generators.
I'll see you in the next one by.